Ruby 3.1.0 Preview 1 Released (#2726)
ruby/www.ruby-lang.org: en/news/_posts/2021-11-09-ruby-3-1-0-preview1-released.md

---
layout: news_post
title: "Ruby 3.1.0 Preview 1 Released"
author: "naruse"
translator:
date: 2021-09-25 00:00:00 +0000
lang: en
---

We are pleased to announce the release of Ruby {{ release.version }}.

{% assign release = site.data.releases | where: "version", "3.1.0-preview1" | first %}

## YJIT: New experimental in-process JIT compiler

Ruby 3.1 merges YJIT, a new in-process JIT compiler developed by Shopify.

> Since [Ruby 2.6 introduced MJIT in 2018](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/news/2018/12/25/ruby-2-6-0-released/), its performance greatly improved, and finaly [we achieved Ruby3x3 last year](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/news/2020/12/25/ruby-3-0-0-released/). But even though Optcarrot has shown impressive speedups, the JIT hasn't benefited real world business applications.

Reviewer: It looks like a typo.

```suggestion
Since [Ruby 2.6 introduced MJIT in 2018](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/news/2018/12/25/ruby-2-6-0-released/), its performance greatly improved, and finally [we achieved Ruby3x3 last year](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/news/2020/12/25/ruby-3-0-0-released/). But even though Optcarrot has shown impressive speedups, the JIT hasn't benefited real world business applications.
```

Recently Shopify contributed many Ruby improvements to speed up their Rails application. YJIT is an important contribution, and aims to improve the performance of Rails applications.

> Though MJIT is a method-based JIT compiler and uses an external C compiler, YJIT uses Basic Block Versioning and includes JIT compiler inside it. With Lazy Basic Block Versioning (LBBV) it first compiles the beggining of a method, and incrementaly compiles the rest when the type of arguments and variables are dynamically determined. See [YJIT: a basic block versioning JIT compiler for CRuby](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3486606.3486781) for a detailed introduction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Though MJIT is a method-based JIT compiler and uses an external C compiler, YJIT uses Basic Block Versioning and includes JIT compiler inside it. With Lazy Basic Block Versioning (LBBV) it first compiles the beginning of a method, and incrementally compiles the rest when the type of arguments and variables are dynamically determined. See [YJIT: a basic block versioning JIT compiler for CRuby](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3486606.3486781) for a detailed introduction.
```
